# Procelio Translation Tool + Files
# Prepared in preparation for Procelio 1.0 Alpha release


## The Rust executable is used for generating and compiling translation files. It *must* be ran from the command line.

The available commands:
#### create: `TranslationTool.exe create LANGUAGE [path/to/files/directory]`
Generates the files for the language of the given name by creating a subdirectory in the files folder.
- If the language does not exist already, creates new files
- If the language already exists, updates its files to contain the current set of UI fields (as defined in the enum file)
Path defaults to "./files" if not provided

#### validate: `TranslationTool.exe validate LANGUAGE [path/to/files/directory]`
Validates that a translation file is suitable for use in-game. Checks that
- The JSON file can be properly parsed
- No fields are defined multiple times
- All fields are defined and within proper constraints
- All fields are present in the enum file
Path defaults to "./files" if not provided


#### generate: `TranslationTool.exe generate [LANGUAGE] path/to/files/directory`
Generates the compiled translation file for the given language.
If language is omitted, generates all translation languages declared in the files/config.json file
Stores the output files in the output folder (defined in config)

If ran without language or path, defaults path to "./files" and generates everything in config.

## Customizing Translation Files
Each translation file consists of two pieces:
1) The JSON file, where all of the data is defined for the translation
2) The PNG Image file, which should appear next to the native name in the translation menu (expected to be a country flag)

### The JSON file: language.json
The "language.json" file holds all of the translation data for this translation.
This file contains a bit of metadata, then a large list of language elements that define the actual user interface text.

#### Metadata

##### anglicized_name
The name of this language in English. "Spanish", not "Español"

##### native_name
The name of the language in that language. 

##### authors
You! Whatever attribution you want for putting in the work here (name, username, etc.)

##### version
The version of this translation file. Should be increased whenever a new release is ready

#### Language Elements
For saving space, only the field_name and field_value values are generated by default.
If further alternations are required, various parameters of the text can be modified by adding the corresponding fields.

Here is a fully-specified text element
```
{
      "field_name": "SOME_TEXT_FIELD",
      "field_value": "Some Text Value In Game",
      "text_size": 0,
      "bold": false,
      "italic": false,
      "underline": false,
      "strikethrough": false,
      "text_color": [
        255,
        255,
        255
      ]
}
```
Descriptions of each field are as follows:

#### field_name
The internal name of the field, used so the game can tell which UI element this goes with.
DO NOT CHANGE

##### field_value
The text of the UI element. You almost certainly want to change this.

##### text_size
In case it's necessary to overwrite the size of the text. 0 = default. 1024 max value. Must be positive.
If unspecified, treated as 0

##### bold
Whether the field value should be bold in-game
If unspecified, treated as 'false'

##### italic
Whether the field value should be italic in-game
If unspecified, treated as 'false'

##### underline
Whether the field value should be underlined in game
If unspecified, treated as 'false'

##### strikethrough
Whether the field value should be struck through in-game
If unspecified, treated as 'false'

##### text_color
What color the text should be in-game
If unspecified, treated as white '[255, 255, 255]'. Each number is the respective one-byte R,G,B channel

### The Image File: image.png
A 24x48 pixel PNG image.
Use any image editor you want to modify it, but keep the file name the same.



### License
This project is made available under the Apache License 2.0.

### Contributions
Contributions are welcome, subject to the license above.
For mildly tech-savvy translators able to use git, feel free to submit PRs.
Otherwise, feel free to download this repository (the green "Clone/Download" button), fill out a translation locally, and send the json+png to one of the devs.

Exact translations aren't required: if rewording a description makes the translation more idiomatic in the target language, feel free to do so.
